# EMG-Activity-in-ALS-Patients

Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) is a neurodegenerative disease with progressive advancement that affects the upper and lower motor neurons. Motor neurons are the communication link between the central nervous system and the muscles. ALS affects these neurons, causing a disassociation between them and the muscles they control. This results in increased muscle weakness in the distal part of the upper limb and the proximal area of the lower limb muscles, leading to loss of motor coordination. Ultimately, it leads to the total loss of the ability to perform voluntary movements, such as eating, walking, and speaking, among other limitations, until it compromises the diaphragm, causing death by asphyxiation.

The implications of ALS on the upper limb muscles are, more specifically, muscle stiffness and exaggerated reflexive involuntary movements. When the neurons are related to the lower limb muscles, the consequences are muscle cramps and momentary involuntary contractions, giving the sensation that the muscle never effectively reaches rest, a phenomenon called fasciculation.

With this work, the goal is to study, albeit very superficially, the consequences of this disease on patients through the analysis of electromyographic signals and subsequent comparison with the signals of an apparently healthy control group. The main differences we expect to find may be related to contraction times and amplitudes, as a consequence of the existence of fibrillation and fasciculation potentials during muscle relaxation. To study the provided signal samples, and through the use of algorithms created in MATLAB, the moments of both contraction and relaxation were identified in order to later observe their duration and amplitude. With the characteristics of each signal, comparisons were made with the control signals to try to come up to a reasonable theoretical conclusion.
